Thank you for talking to Scott Theroux.
Congratulations.
I love the book.
Good.
Thank you.
I love it, too, frankly.
Thanks.
It's really, it's a novel.
Yeah, I think so, too.
I feel really good about it.
I, and indeed, one of the problems I've got as a writer right now is I've just got to get over this book and go on.
I, I mean, I worked so many years on it, and it's,
You know, there are so many different themes floating around, and the fact that I actually managed to get my arms around all of it was my proudest achievement as a writer.
And now, so I sort of sat back and really smiled at myself for a number of months, and now I just have to get over this book and go and write something else.
This took a little longer than the others, perhaps?
It took a long, no, because you see, I started it right after a
Actually, I started it before I finished The Burden of Proof, in the sense that I'd always wanted to do this 60s story, and when I handed in the initial draft of The Burden of Proof, I had parts written from Sonny Klonsky's point of view, and John Glassie said to me, well, look, you can't shift to her point of view two-thirds of the way through the book,
If you want her to have a book, you know, you have to give her another book.
And I said, Eureka, that's it.
That's how I'm going to write about the 60s through Sonny.
That was my starting point, and that was 89.
Did you, in your mind, know her history at that point?
Well, I stuck it in the burden of proof.
If you go back to the burden of proof, you look, and there'll be a few lines.
I haven't seen how faithful to that I was, but it's close.
It's close enough.
Do you want something to drink, Nick?
No, no.
You sure?
water or something now?
Okay.
All right.
So, I knew that she was going to be in California, this philosophy student, end up in the Peace Corps, all of that.
That was all plotted out in there, in the Burden of Proof.
And then the stuff with Seth,
The boyfriend came next, and his conflict with his parents, and the staged kidnapping, that whole thing.
But I knew that I wanted to write a contemporary story.
I knew she was a judge.
It was a logical next step in her career.
I thought it would be really interesting to tell the story of a trial from a judge's point of view.
But I couldn't figure out what the hell the case was.
In 90 and 91, when I was really home and away writing, I was writing as if Seth's divorce case.
In other words, she and Seth had broken up 25 years later.
Lo and behold, here's her ex, about to be the ex from somebody else.
And I said to myself, this just doesn't fit what the rest of the book is about.
And so I jettisoned it and wrote Pleading Guilty.
So you put this on the shelf?
I put it on the shelf, confident that if I took the time, I would know what I wanted to write about.
Well, and I began, I was doing pro bono work down at 26th Street in Chicago in the state courts, and all of a sudden it hit me and said, this, this is what connects.
these are the kinds of cases she's hearing.
She's looking at this, the dim legacy of the ideologies of the 60s.
This is where she is, and that's the kind of case it has to be.
And I said, well, how do I get all this stuff about fathers and sons and mothers and daughters into this?
And that's how the plot... So it was fathers and sons, though.
That clearly was... That was clear for Seth's story.
Yeah, yeah.
But I mean, to have...
of the novel, I think, with all these, I mean, it's a theme that we see.
Right, absolutely.
Absolutely.
On every level, I mean, with everyone.
Right.
So that was, did you have the title at that point?
Yeah, I did, and I remain convinced that I've heard that term somewhere, and I think what it is, it's actually a direct translation of
It's seldom employed anymore.
The Torah is sometimes referred to as the Torah of our fathers.
And all of these of our fathers stuff has been dropped out of the liturgy because it's not gender neutral.
But it's a phrase I grew up with as a kid and the laws of our fathers.
So I wanted its sort of liturgical echo and
in the sense that it creates a conflict between fathers and sons.
I mean, undoubtedly there's a sequence of coincidences here between all these characters.
Right.
It is kind of nice.
It's almost a throwback while the characters are brought together.
Right.
Absolutely.
Reunited.
In action.
Were you fearful of that device?
Well, I mean, every novel's gotta have a device of some kind.
And this is the problem with this device, it seemed to me, and always is, not that it's unreal.
While I was writing this, and worrying about this concatenation of events,
A fellow happened to be charged with bilking his law firm in Chicago.
Who does he arrive, who does he hire for his lawyer?
Of course, one of his law school classmates.
And who does he arrive before for sentencing but another of their law school classmates?
And I watched carefully because this judge never took himself off the case.
And I said to myself, so here's my case.
And it's a small world.
Meeting the legal profession.
Right.
You've got to move in circles.
But I think it's more the coincidence than the fact that I don't think she has to accuse herself.
I really don't think she has to disqualify herself.
It's the coincidence of all those people ending up in the courtroom.
Were you mindful with this O.J.
Simpson thing to have this judge?
It couldn't have been possible in that case where the judge could have tried this thing without a jury.
Sure he could.
Ito could attach, right?
Is that right?
Yeah, but I had the defense asked for it.
It would have been suicidal.
The defense would never have asked for it in that case, because in that case, O.J.
Simpson would have been convicted.
That's right.
So it made sense to go to a jury.
Right.
But I like that.
In fact, here in New York, this was a major case just last week.
You don't have to read the New York Times or a cop.
The defense actually asked that.
It happens all the time.
You have a lot of big murder cases that are done as bench trials.
I mean, this, of course, becomes, you know, one of the elements of a plot, which is why would he do this?
Why would Hobie do this?
What scheme does he have in his head in requesting the bench trial?
Because it's, you know, it seems odd at the time.
What is he doing exactly?
It's pretty brilliant.
And he would have won, actually, as he tells the prosecutor.
Right.
Clearly he would have won.
The reader knows that.
And you really did put yourself in the mind of a judge, Dave, didn't you?
Was that hard?
No.
I mean, I think... I think... Every lawyer sees it that way.
Sees what they would do if they were in the middle.
I thought that was terrific.
I thought it was a very interesting perspective for readers, though.
And you set me up.
I didn't expect it to be strong.
I have to say, you absolutely caught me.
He asked for it, and she said, ah, I'm out.
I'm out.
I'm out of here.
How the hell did I do this to myself?
Well, I'm not doing it to myself again.
It was wonderful.
And she got away from the pressure that they were laying on her and all this other stuff.
That was a nice thing.
I certainly won't blow that in there yet.
This is by no means a legal thriller.
Maybe I'm wrong on that, but it's a... Well, it certainly speaks heavily in the law.
It is, and... I mean, look, there's obviously a mystery in the sense of who did try to kill June Edgar, and the book essentially answers that.
I've always, you know, I am really caught as an author in a certain fundamental dilemma.
I have always believed that contemporary fiction went wrong when it decided in the shadow of Lionel Trilling, announcing the death of the novel, to
to adhere strictly to the middle range of experience.
You know, the books by Bellow, for example, which I admire gigantically, but which are basically plotless, because... And thus boring, I can say that.
And thus, they deserted the great kind of middle range of readers who read not only for enlightenment, but entertainment.
And so, you know, when I wrote Presumed Innocence,
Obviously, I discovered that I had a skill in a genre I'd never considered writing in, and that's the reason, of course, first and foremost, that I do it.
But I also thought this is a way to write for a larger audience that will be of interest to a larger audience.
That doesn't necessarily mean renouncing serious purposes.
But the problem with the mystery, of course, is the formal one, which is, you know, you've got it at the beginning, the middle, and the end.
You've got to say whodunit.
And the thing I like about this book is that it better escapes than any of my other novels, the restrictions of the form.
You know, it just opens up.
I've always been trying, but this book finds the way out in what, so far to me, the most satisfying way.
So, when you say it's not really a legal thriller, I understand what you mean.
It aspires to be a novel.
Well, and I meant it in that context.
To me, it's a nice, big novel, and I like nice, big, multi-layered, textured novels with a number of stories coming together and feeding off each other.
Of course, in your 60s element, the Vietnam War element, I mean, that's by no means illegal.
I guess it is.
Well, it's a crime story in the end.
But is this for you, then,
your 60s novel?
Yeah, this is my 60s novel.
I don't think I'll go back.
Kind of the thing you felt you, at some point, had to confront?
Yes, I absolutely had to confront it.
I had to write this book.
You know, I, large elements of this are autobiographical.
Not that I ever posed as being kidnapped or, but, you know, I certainly lived out in the Bay Area in those times.
So, Seth plays a lot of yourself in it.
Seth has got a lot of me.
There's no question about that.
I'm not ... I mean, I'm a lot different than Seth, and I'm not quite as ... I'm probably not as nice as he is, nor am I as absorbed in my own vulnerabilities, or at least as sorry for myself as he is.
But, you know, his view of the world and mine are probably not very far apart.
Same thing, of course, could be said for Sonny.
You know, these people, both of them, have a sensibility, probably more like my own than any character I've written, including Rusty Sandwich.
So, I mean, there's that.
What in particular did you feel that you wanted to exercise?
Just your experiences from the 60s?
Look, I think...
that for people of my age, and by that I mean basically your boomer group, the 60s were the formative experience of their lifetime.
And I think the 60s left a legacy of questions that really are, to a great extent, unanswered.
I think most American politics has been about the issues that were raised by the 60s.
We keep pretending that we've got it all resolved when I don't think we do.
You know, we really...we're not close to answering the questions about equality that we think we have.
We're not close to having dealt for the last time with the notion of communitarianism.
We think that because, you know, the commies are gone, that the notion that
people owe a duty to each other to share more broadly than Americans want to share at the moment.
We think that's gone away.
It hasn't gone away.
That's going to come back, and it's going to come back with vehemence at some time, probably pretty soon.
So, I mean, I just saw a lot in the 60s that was unresolved in America, and certainly that was unresolved in me.
And, of course, the decisions that put in the immediate presence
You cover six months, and it's September in 95, and there are people in 96.
Right, right, right.
So it is very focused in that respect, in terms of the time frame.
Absolutely.
And there's a necessity.
There's going to be a lot of continuances and things.
It's going to be a bench trial, and we're going to get to it.
It's not going to go in for 10 months.
It's going to be right there.
But then you also allow yourself to go back and to develop the histories of all these characters.
Did you think, obviously, the sins of the fathers, I mean, you can see this on any number of levels in the novel.
I mean, the prime culprit, but then you have sex, and you don't have sin so much, but you have a zoology, a letter at the end, and it all resembles the daughter, you know?
So it really is a generational... Absolutely.
It keeps on rolling.
And it's not sins, necessarily, in every respect, but it is, I hate to use the word baggage, it's inheritance.
And it's the, I mean, the pivotal question is, how do you define yourself with and still accept the past?
And, I mean, that's a struggle for every generation.
And, you know, how does that express, how do those struggles express themselves in terms of values, you know, political and personal?
Let me just say, and I'll say this in my piece, and I really admire what you did here.
It was risky.
Yeah.
It had to be, and you had to be mindful of this when you were doing it.
I was very mindful of it, and to some extent.
You've got a captive, I can say this, you've got a captive readership out there, people who really are eager to read the next, and maybe there's an expectation that it's going to be a certain kind of a book.
You're not giving them necessarily what they might be expecting.
I, you know, I think I've deviated with each book.
I think there's a lot of risk in that, and I think at some levels, you know, I can argue the other side of this and say, you know, it's highly plotted, it's Rebecca McCourtman, which is where you were presumed innocent.
People seem to be fascinated with that.
So maybe it's not as risky at that level, but the scope of the book is obviously
a lot to bite off as a writer.
And, you know, as I said, I feel good that I managed to do it.
Are you making some kind of a creative statement with this book, seems to say?
You know, the fact that it's your point now?
Look, I think it's a really good book.
I mean, but ask me what I think about it five years from now.
Right now, I think it's far and away the best book that I've written.
And I've summed up more of my own life in this book than I ever have before, frankly, thought I could do.
In a novel?
In a novel.
In the first book.
Right.
No, but I mean, just in terms of really dealing with the things that have moved through me, does that necessarily make it good?
That wasn't my question.
Am I making a creative statement?
I think I'm making a creative statement, but I think it's one that, frankly, be consistently consistent.
Well, did you have, you've been through this since you took a book.
Do you have any apprehensions when you put one of these babies out there?
I have tremendous apprehensions, yeah.
You know, I don't, you know,
If he writes it, will they come?
You know, I have no idea at what point those great masses who scooped up, you know, the three prior novels are going to disappear.
And I don't know if this book is going to drive them away or bring them in in droves.
And, you know, we're all going to find out.
I just, two weeks ago, in fact, it's a piece I ran this week on this very street,
three blocks down, and then the viewer, Neil Simon.
Mm-hmm.
Nice man.
Oh, lovely, lovely man.
And we were talking, and again, I'm really interested in the process, you know, I created a process, and the duty of playwriting, of course, is that you know, incidentally, you know, the day it's opening night, you think, you know, if it's a hit or if it's not, if you score it, if you haven't.
And of course, he's written for television, which he detests.
movies, which you guys don't like, so that's how he pays the rent.
And of course, even I asked him to visualize the audience.
I don't have a clue with television.
Film could be something else.
He said, there's 1,000 intelligent people in that theater that night, and that's who I'm writing for.
And I guess what I'm driving to here is, and not the critics, because you never know what the critics are going to say.
You know, he's had his raps, too.
People don't realize, you know, he had a couple of plays that ended up for a 30 or 40 performance.
Right.
Stashman and Pharrell was one.
A very circuitous way of asking, do you have a sense of your audience who you read it is?
I think I have a sense of an ideal reader.
But, in point of fact, you know, I did a book signing last night in Washington.
It was sobering and inspiring and delightful.
You know, people stood in line for an hour and a half.
And who were my readers?
My readers were literally every shape, size, every age, every color.
And that's great.
You know, they were, some were attorneys and clearly attorneys with very sophisticated practices.
Some were government bureaucrats.
Some were those bureaucrat secretaries.
I mean, some, you know, one woman showed up and said, you know, she was buying this for the 18 people in her office, and they were going to pass it around.
And the person behind said, oh, no, no, no, everybody should buy their own copy.
I said, hey, for the author, it's great.
I said, what an author wants is readers.
And, you know, I...
I don't have a full sense who my audience is, but I tell you one thing, I am grateful as hell to them.
I really am, and I try desperately not to, you know, to talk down to them, and I hope, you know, I hope they're willing to follow me in this book, and, you know, put up with, put up with it, and I think that there's a substantial reward for them.
Like I said, it's not,
taken from the personal reads a lot.
It's not a tedious read, you know.
I mean, it's not.
I would tell you that.
It's a very effortless read that we really do get involved with the characters and their stories.
And there is a definite mystery.
What the hell is going on here?
And I have to say, I mean, I'm the guy that figured out prison and genocide.
I'm listening to a couple of things.
I didn't figure out this one.
The fact that you smuggling drugs in the mariner and it makes perfect sense.
And then, of course, it makes sense with the father.
It was very, very clever.
Thank you.
Congratulations.
Is this the kind of thing, again, I don't give anything away, but in terms of applauding, is this something you're working towards, or do you pretty much know that this is where it is at the end of the Elmore Grove?
You know, people always ask me this, and I don't
I mean, obviously I knew there had to be a connection between the back story, which was what was written first and the present.
And I was damned for the longest period of time if I could figure it out.
And I really just started with this murder, and I knew he had to be accused of murdering one of his parents.
Again, because of the themes of the back story.
And then, of course, I had to explain it, and it did come to me.
And it did seem to me to make a lot of sense.
I thought... I mean, you outlined, you thought, you were just... I just live with it.
Yeah.
I ferment.
And how were you able to do your love practice?
I said to you.
compartmentalize the things?
It's very uncompartmentalized.
Through most of the time I was writing this book, I was in the office three days a week, and usually I write in the mornings, and I'll practice at home, and I practice in the afternoon.
Two of those days, I try to cheat a little, get a little more time at home, and then after lunch, pick up the phone and take phone calls.
And the other three days, I'm downtown in the office.
And, you know, when clients need me, they'll call me in the morning at home.
And, you know, the clients I have are the clients who both understand my situation and have a sense of discretion and don't call me tirelessly at home.
And one of my great gifts is that I can pick up the phone,
talk to a client, talk to them sometimes for 40 minutes, put it down, make a note, send a fax, whatever it is, and then pick up where I was writing in the middle of the sound.
That's amazing.
And that's a real gift.
Well, I think it comes from surviving as a writer for so many years under such difficult circumstances.
So, you know, writing on the commuter train.
And I probably owe my high school journalism teacher, Robert Boyle, a real
Thank you for that, because he taught us in this journalism class that we would not... He said, I don't want you to be like monks.
He said, I want you to all write in the same room.
He said, I want you to be able to write with typewriters clacking.
He said, don't treat yourself like Proust, but you have to be in a court line.
And so I learned.
You know, I've gone the other way.
I'm brought up in this whole tradition.
Right.
That I love it.
And I can perform, but since I left the paper, you know, in just over five years, working at home, I love silence.
I'll bet.
It's wonderful.
It's really, it's precious.
Tell me, you know, are you working on a movie?
Because I don't want a pinch on your next story, maybe a few years back then.
a new novel in progress?
Well, as I said to start, I've been less disciplined about giving up this book than I should have been.
Yeah, I have a book that I really need to do some research on.
It's probably in some ways further along than I usually am at this stage.
I'm going to have to fill in some holes, and I'm going to spend some time when I get back to my life in Chicago in December, hanging around with personal injury lawyers, and I want to
learn a little bit about their world, and the characters are really well mapped out in my head.
The plot is pretty well known.
So, I don't know how long it'll take to write.
And do you foresee setting everything in this region?
It's going, yes, we're definitely back in Kimball County again.
Definitely.
What exactly are the quiet cities and the tri-city?
Tri-city.
Are these real cities?
I was out in Kansas City a couple weeks ago.
I saw some of the Quad Cities.
Right.
There are faint resemblances to half a dozen urban areas.
Do you think that you're comfortable writing in the law?
Do you ever see yourself leaving?
Well, you know, frankly, this seemed unimaginable to me.
The first time you asked me this question, about 10 years ago, it's now 10 years later.
And, you know, there are two realities here.
One is I'm getting older.
My energy level is not what it was 10 years ago.
And the other is I've been doing the same thing for 10 years longer.
So I would like to continue to find new challenges in the law.
And I don't really imagine leaving the legal environment completely.
Teaching still doesn't feel right to me.
So, I don't know what the alternatives are.
I really love my partners, but I wish that my, I wish that it weren't the case that my clients seem to have emergencies whenever I'm unavailable.
And, you know, I wish it weren't the case that unethical opponents still exist.
There are things that drive you out of the practice.
So, you know, for the time being, I'm still there.
But you enjoy it.
I love it.
I really do enjoy it.
And if you didn't get out of that courthouse, you wouldn't have figured out what Sonny was doing.
Absolutely.
You know, so there's... No, I mean, that's real.
I mean, I don't... It is real.
I could do a little less than I do and still absorb a lot.
You know, and I really feel like I've got a lifetime worth of stories already.
But, I don't know.
You know, life is really is the burden of proof set again and again.
Life is full of surprises, and I'll see where things take.
And, you didn't feel any risk at all?
I mean, a white guy in his 40s
using an African-American violin.
Did I feel a risk in that?
Yes, I felt a tremendous risk in that.
And I'm yet to hear... I'm yet to hear any criticism.
I worked like hell at that.
I mean, I worked like hell at that.
I did not want somebody telling me about that.
And I really studied that language carefully.
And of course, I had a point tonight.
I want Americans to really look hard at the degree of separation that exists for the black poor and the fact that with all of our 60s ideologies, whether they were black separation or benign neglect, that we have allowed a segment of our society to dwell in conditions that are unimaginably horrible.
and that they really and truly no longer speak our language, and that unless we mend that division, and that requires tremendous effort in both communities, we are headed for disaster.
So, and so this was, you mindfully worked this in as a commentary?
Mindfully.
I did not want to be, I mean, I figure you can't write about the 60s without writing about race, and I will not write about race.
just from white people's points of view.
And I will not respect the politically correct pieties that say that black experience belongs only to blacks, just like I wouldn't respect the less entrenched rule that a man can't write about a woman.
That's not what literature's about.
Literature is about imaginative transposition.
It's about what it's like to stand in somebody else's shoes.
And again, you know, I think some of the minimalist impulse in today's fiction is to avoid crossing any of those political lines.
I mean, this is obviously a novel in the 19th century tradition.
It sees lots of different points of view, lots of different range in society.
And, you know, I wanted to do that.
This is a great book.
Do you have any opinion at all on this raging debate that's been going on?
And this is not for this piece, but for possibilities in this book.
I'm literally asking every writer I talk to, you just had a very interesting comment on what literature is and what it isn't.
Well, I mean, this is one I really see from both sides.
The problem is that this is when...
the notion of broad tastes and the recognition that the house of literature has many rooms, which is an important thing to recognize and accept, when that all of a sudden becomes an orthodoxy.
And, you know, it is certainly the case that there's a lot of great writing by name your oppressed group, African Americans or women or Kurds or
whoever, that has not been appropriately appreciated.
That's certainly true, but that doesn't mean that you should throw out Shakespeare.
That's right.
Well, let me just say and interject, how do you respond to the news that, for instance, you can get a degree in English literature now, not literature, English, English literature, Georgetown University,
without being required to study Shakespeare, Milton, Chaucer, Espresso.
I, I, I, what good is that degree?
I was sitting at the dinner table with the president of Amherst College, Tom Garry, when he was informed that they had, Amherst had graduated as summa in English the prior year, who had never had granted Shakespeare.
Oh, thank you.
I'd like that with your next interview.
I'd like to have that again, if it's all possible.
Okay.
Well, I said that I was sitting at the dinner table of the president of Amherst College, Tom Garry, when he was informed, he was informed, by one of the members of his faculty that Amherst had graduated a summa in English who had not taken a course in Shakespeare.
That's extraordinary.
And Tom just sat there and looked.
He said, we did.
We did.
Now, can I use this in some way?
Go ahead.
He said, not only was he.
I might pursue it if it's okay with you.
Not only was he.
I didn't have to say where I heard it.
Well, the poet who told the story was April, redhead, charming woman, and a good writer.
Did it just very recently happen?
It was within the last two years.
Now, everybody there was a member of the English department faculty.
So, therefore, you can get a degree in Amherst without having to take a course in Shakespeare.
But a SUMA!
They graduated in SUMA.
I know.
We're all actually called the head of the English department.
Right.
Take it from there.
Yeah.
And take it as a straight reporter.
And they were all horrified.
Everybody there was horrified.
That's what they could be.
They were horrified.
And yet, it was possible to do it.
So, I'm unfair in singling out of Georgetown then.
You're unfair in singling.
I think it's probably everywhere.
Harold Bloom feels that departments of literature are going to be like departments of classics, you know, with two or three teachers and maybe a half a dozen kids taking literature and everything else will be cultural studies.
I'm on a panel in Miami next month of the writing book there with David Dundee, the great book.
Yeah, David, please say hello for me.
I don't know if this is a person, and Alberto Mangualdo, The History of Reading, and Lynchian Schwartz, who's going to write it myself.
It should be a heck of a fun panel.
Sounds great.
It should be a fun panel.
Sounds like a great panel.
It's going to be fun that I'm preparing for writing and reading all the books.
But it's, so you know, I mean, I think you gave me an answer.
I did give you an answer, yeah.
I think it's just, I don't, I would not consider myself a well-read person if I hadn't read Shakespeare.
I wouldn't consider myself a well-read person if I hadn't read Nome or Chaucer.
And, you know, I'm not sure that I wouldn't rather know more African literature than Chaucer.
I might be willing to make that trade, but I can't see Shakespeare.
I just, I can't imagine.
Or limiting your college exposure to one play, or four courses, whatever, as part of a sweeping survey for us.
It's a very, that's a difficult proposition, but you just have to.
Well, and maybe there's a corollary question to that, and this is where the criticism comes from, the women critics.
and the African-American critics, and the multiculturalists, there are five different groups, and that literature has to be relevant to society.
And that's the most, to me personally, that's a rather, is it relevant, I guess, is the question that is, is it relevant?
They're absolutely right about that.
Literature does have to be relevant.
It doesn't have to be relevant.
But you tell me why Shakespeare isn't relevant.
Like, you know, I give this to you.
It's great, I mean.
My daughter is reading the first act of Hamlet, and so we got on the phone this morning, and we're talking about To Thy Own Self Be True, and I was telling her about watching Paul Scofield play Polonius, just the incredible blowhard that he is, and that, you know, and he just tosses off that line, To Thy Own Self Be True, and she says to me, and it's bullshit when he says it, and I said, no, I said, it's not bullshit, it's
the magnificent irony of Shakespeare that from this incredibly unlikely source comes this truth to which human beings have resonated for 500 years.
In his case, she's right, it's a platitude.
When he utters it, it's a platitude.
It means nothing to him.
Right.
He's molting it.
That's the point.
It means nothing to him, but to the rest of us, it lives forever.
And it's extraordinary.
It's above all else.
I mean, he doesn't have the first idea of what that means, and yet, how is that not relevant to the experience that human beings have every day?
I mean, we all deal with people who talk without listening to themselves.
I mean, you just, it's such an astonishing, I mean, if you really think about that, that yes, he's a blowharder, no, he doesn't even understand what he's saying, and yet he's saying something of infinite value, it's like
God, it's humanity complex.
Yeah, but you know, rejected the sentiment, which is great, I think.
Right, and so, and there you, I mean, how is that not wrong?
It's a good quote.
You know what, you're going to, when you describe a book